# IASC 2P02 Caleb Nelson Bio
My name is Caleb Nelson and am currently a second year student at Brock University. Hobbies include graphics design, video games and football (American football, not soccer).

# Blog

The visualization of data allows researchers and users to question or create answers from said data. Moretti first brought this idea upon us by visualizing the number of British novels created in the early 1700s to the mid 1800s. His conclusion; there were three phases over that time period. He explained that “each [novel] subdivided into a first period of rapid growth and a second one of stabilization, and each modifying in a specific way the social role of the novel.” (Moretti, 71). In my post, I will relate his findings to the trends of todays society, specifically trends created by social media. The word trend itself evolved over the years and now caters to almost anything “popular” whether a unique clothing style, slang words, memes or even in the arts (such as music production). Trends can even be directly related to people. For example, the “cash me ousside” girl, Danielle Bregoli, became a trend nationally based simply off her abstract appearance on The Dr. Phil Show. This trend turned into a meme and gained traction on social media ultimately landing her success in the internet community. She now has millions of Instagram followers and appeared on many comedy sketches as well as a music video for the well-known rapper Kodak Black. I’ll give you another example of a trend, but this time we’ll go way back to the years 2009-2011. The trend in question is “planking”. Simply put, one would lie face-down on anything, literally anything; on the roof of a car, on top of a fridge, on a bench in public, even on a counter at a fast food chain. This trend became popular due to its randomness and took off worldwide. The differences these two trends have is that planking lasted much longer than the “cash me ousside” girl/meme. Therefore, trends seem to be in the now and rarely brought up again once the trends die out. An article I found on DHQ “suggest[s] that the longer a trend takes to reach a national audience, the longer that trend is likely to last. Long-lasting trends tend to be slow and steady, systematically circulating from city to city until finally reaching the national level”. (Horn, Beveridge, Morey, 46). This is seen through the “planking’s” lifecycle, it was seen first in the UK and made its way through Europe to North America, it became a world-wide trend that lasted years rather than a meme to last a few months. But why is this the case, what defines a memes lifecycle? Its simple, the growth and steadiness of social media as well as the activity on these sites where many accounts are known to make original memes or spread user-created memes across a larger audience. Furthermore, there are more platforms to share media than ever before (Instagram, Twitter, Reddit to name a few). Let’s take a step back and reiterate what Moretti says about the trends of British novels. The first period of rapid growth. This is more closely related to social media memes, as I said before, there are many platforms to share media quickly and in an accessible way. The second stage is for where trends stabilize. The trend is ultimately milked to its potential. What else does Moretti say about the trends of those British novels? Well trends seem to be seasonal. As a certain type of novel is created, many more like it are also created in junction of popularity or current events. Older novels become unpopular compared to the newer ones. This is also the case for current trends. It may seem a bit obvious but when have we taken a deeper dive into some outdated trends? We soon realize that trends are created in the current times and events because of the current times and events, they rarely make a comeback after they’re deemed dead. As you can see in the Voyant image, key words such as “trends”, “attention” and “network” further the evidence of how trends are gaining popularity; through networks. 

<!--	Exported from Voyant Tools (voyant-tools.org).
The iframe src attribute below uses a relative protocol to better function with both
http and https sites, but if you're embedding this into a local web page (file protocol)
you should add an explicit protocol (https if you're using voyant-tools.org, otherwise
it depends on this server.
Feel free to change the height and width values or other styling below: -->
<iframe style='width: 100%; height: 800px' src='//voyant-tools.org/?view=Cirrus&corpus=60661587967d5b19594edd535d904a4e'></iframe>

In conclusion, there seems to be a pattern with trends in the 1700s to 1800s compared to trends in the 21st century. The pattern pertains to both time periods in very similar ways. A trend is created, it gains traction and eventually dies off after months or even years.

# Citations:
Van Horn, Nicholas M., Aaron Beveridge, and Sean Morey. "Attention Ecology: Trend Circulation and the Virality Threshold." DHQ: Digital Humanities Quarterly. N.p., 2016. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. <http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/10/4/000271/000271.html>.

Moretti, Franco. GRAPHS, MAPS, TREES. N.p.: n.p., 2003. Online.
